README.md, before:

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/cli/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/fonts) to automatically optimize and load [Geist](https://vercel.com/font), a new font family for Vercel.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.

Commit message:

feat: Next.js 설정 업데이트 및 정적 사이트 배포를 위한 README 개선
- GitHub Pages 배포를 위해 next.config.mjs에 basePath와 assetPrefix 지원 추가
- package.json에 export 스크립트를 추가하여 build의 별칭으로 사용 가능하도록 설정
- 정적 사이트 생성 및 GitHub Pages 배포 방법을 README에 추가
- 편집기 헬퍼 함수와 타입 개선으로 타입 안정성과 가독성 향상

README.md, after:

## Slate Editor Demo

Rich-text playground built with Next.js 14, Slate.js, Tailwind CSS, and TypeScript.

### Development

```bash
yarn install
yarn dev
```

### Static Build (GitHub Pages)

```bash
yarn build   # `next build` with output: 'export'
```

- The static site will be generated in the `out/` directory, ready to upload to GitHub Pages.
- If the site will live under `https://yourname.github.io/<repo>`, set `NEXT_PUBLIC_REPO_BASE=<repo>` before running `yarn build` to ensure the correct basePath/assetPrefix.

### Scripts

| Script          | Description                               |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `yarn dev`      | Start local dev server                    |
| `yarn build`    | Production build (writes `out/` via `output: 'export'`) |
| `yarn export`   | Alias for `yarn build`                    |
| `yarn lint`     | ESLint check                              |
| `yarn format`   | Prettier write                            |
| `yarn format:check` | Prettier check                        |

### Deployment to GitHub Pages

1. `yarn build`
2. Upload the `out/` folder contents to your `gh-pages` branch (or use a GitHub Action to do so).
3. Enable GitHub Pages for that branch/folder.

This project relies entirely on static rendering and client-side interactivity, so no Node.js server is required in production.
